.\"     $Id: l4_fpage_unmap.man,v 1.5 1998/09/25 03:49:50 gernot Exp $
.\"     Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Kevin Elphinstone, University of New
.\"     South Wales.
.\"
.\"     This file is part of the L4/MIPS micro-kernel distribution.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"     modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"     as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"     of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"     
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"     
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH L4_FPAGE_UNMAP 2 "25.09.98" "CSE/UNSW" "System calls"
.SH NAME
l4_fpage_unmap \-  unmap an L4 flex page
.SH "Synopsis"
.br
\fB#include <l4/syscalls.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid l4_fpage_unmap(l4_fpage_t \fP\fIfpage\fP,
\fBdword_t \fP\fImap_mask\fP\fB);\fP
.SH "Description"
The \fBl4_fpage_unmap()\fP system call unmaps the specified flex page
in all address spaces into which the invoker mapped it directly or
indirectly.
.SH "Arguments"
.IP "\fIfpage\fP"
Fpage to be unmapped.
.IP "\fImap_mask\fP"
There are two bits controlling the operation of this system call. The
first one determines whether a page is unmapped completely or only
write-protected. One of the following values should be used to control
this bit: 
.RS
.IP "\fBL4_FP_REMAP_PAGE\fP"
The flex page is set to read\-only. 
.IP "\fBL4_FP_FLUSH_PAGE\fP"
The flex page is completely unmapped.
.RE

The second bit determines whether or not the operation also applies to
pages in the caller's address space. One of the following values should be used to control
this bit: 
.RS
.IP "\fBL4_FP_OTHER_SPACES\fP"
The flex page is unmapped in all address spaces into which it has been
mapped. The original flex page remains mapped.
.IP "\fBL4_FP_ALL_SPACES\fP"
The flex page is unmapped everywhere, including the original page.
.RE

In order to avoid suprises, \fImap_mask\fP should be the bitwise OR of
one value from each group.
.SH "Return Values"
No return value is sent back.
.SH "See Also"
\fIl4_thread_ex_regs\fP, 
\fIl4_myself\fP, 
\fIl4_id_nearest\fP, 
\fIl4_ipc\fP,
\fIl4_thread_switch\fP, 
\fIl4_thread_schedule\fP, 
\fIl4_task_new\fP 
