.\"     $Id: l4_mips_ipc_sleep.man,v 1.4 1998/12/16 02:51:00 gernot Exp $
.\"     Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Kevin Elphinstone, University of New
.\"     South Wales.
.\"
.\"     This file is part of the L4/MIPS micro-kernel distribution.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"     modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"     as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"     of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"     
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"     
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH L4_MIPS_IPC_SLEEP 2 "06.12.97" "CSE/UNSW" "System calls"
.SH NAME
l4_mips_ipc_sleep \- sleep for a specified time interval
.SH "Synopsis"
.br
\fB#include <ipc.h>\fP
.PP
\fBstatic inline int\fP 
.br
\fBl4_mips_ipc_sleep(l4_timeout_t\fP \fItimeout\fP \fB, l4_msgdope_t\fP \fI*result\fP
\fB);\fP
.SH "Description"
This operation includes no send phase and specifies an invalid source
for the receive phase. No message can therefore be received and the ipc
will be terminated with ``receive timeout'' after the time specified in
the parameter \fItimeout\fP is elapsed.
.SH "Arguments"
.IP "\fItimeout\fP"
This 32\-bit word specifies the timeouts value. Only the receive timeout
is relevant. For a detailed description see
the L4 Reference Manual.
.IP "\fIresult\fP"
The message dope describing the result of the ipc.
.SH "Return Values"
The following return values are possible:
.IP "\fBL4_IPC_RETIMEOUT\fP"
Timeout during receive operation.
.IP "\fBL4_IPC_RERCVPFTO\fP"
Receive pagefault timeout.
.SH "See Also"
\fIl4_ipc\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_receive\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_chief_receive\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_reply_and_wait\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_reply_deceiving_and_wait\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_chief_reply_and_wait\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_send\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_send_deceiving\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_chief_send\fP, 
\fIl4_mips_ipc_call\fP,
\fIl4_mips_ipc_chief_call\fP,
\fIl4_mips_ipc_wait\fP,
\fIl4_mips_ipc_chief_wait\fP,
.\" \fIl4_mips_ipc_sleep\fP 
