.\"     $Id: l4_myself.man,v 1.4 1998/01/22 05:45:25 kevine Exp $
.\"     Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Kevin Elphinstone, University of New
.\"     South Wales.
.\"
.\"     This file is part of the L4/MIPS micro-kernel distribution.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"     modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"     as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"     of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"     
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"     
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH L4_MYSELF 2 "28.07.97" "CSE/UNSW" "System calls"
.SH NAME
l4_myself \-  deliver the id of the current thread
.SH "Synopsis"
.br
\fB#include <syscalls.h>\fP
.PP
\fBl4_threadid_t l4_myself(void); \fP 
.SH "Description"
The \fBl4_myself()\fP system call returns the id of the current thread.
.SH "Arguments"
The system call requires no arguments.
.SH "Return Values"
The thread id of the current thread is returned.
.SH "See Also"
\fIl4_thread_ex_regs\fP, 
\fIl4_fpage_unmap\fP, 
\fIl4_id_nearest\fP,  
\fIl4_ipc\fP,
\fIl4_thread_switch\fP, 
\fIl4_thread_schedule\fP, 
\fIl4_task_new\fP 
